indigent: Poor or needy
Due to his lavish life and squandering his money he became indigent now

inveterate: Having a particular habit / activity that has been long established and unlikely to change
Many people are addicted to inveterate smoking and find it difficult to reform.

indignant: Feeling or showing anger or annoyance at what is perceived as unfair treatment
The old man was indignant to the clerk on how he treated her

hidebound: Unable to change due to age old customs
Old people does not adapt due to their hidebound nature towards the modern culture

demur: raise objections or show reluctance
The opposition members demured every bill raised by the Prime minister

waver: Remain undecided between options or course of action
Flickering
The leader of the party was wavering on whom to make chief minister

scathe: harm / injure
When u fall from a bike you had been scathed by the road.
damage or destroy by fire

desiccate: lacking interest or passion or zeal or energy
Despite all gadgets to lighten his work, he leaves office with desiccated mind. 
remove moisture from something or typically inorder to preserve it.

vitiate: To make something corrupt or imperfect 
Escalating communal violence can vitiate social harmony

vilify: To talk behind the back in a bad way 
To say or write something unpleasant about someone or something
Modern day social media makes it easy to vilify anyone easily

coercion: Action of pursuading someone to do something by force
Bad guys in movies use coercion as a weapon to intimidate the protagonist.

sinecure: Doing little to no work but equally rewarded
Most of the work is done by the bottom level management but the credit is taken by the top level management.
Here top level management is sinecure.

heretic: One who disbelieves the generally accepted traditions 
In olden days people are punished severely for being heretic

vagary: An unexpected and inexplainable change in one's behaviour
No matter how well you plan the trip, we still need to take vagaries of weather into account.  

incontrovertible: cannot be denied or disputed

indolent: Lazy or wanting to do an activity
Jack was fired from his job because he was indolent even after multiple warnings

causing little or no pain
Since leprosy spreads slowly over time so it is indolent infectious disease.

visceral: Related to deep inward feelings rather than intellect
During the times of crisis we need to make visciral choices.

ignoble: Not having honourable character or purpose
Due to recent sex scandle Mark's career reached ignoble end and finally terminated

stolid: Being calm and not showing any emotion
By his stolid expression we can say that he was sees these kind of crimes everyday.

insouciance: Showing no seriousness or casual lack of concern or indifference.
The president's insouciance towards the troops was very concerning.

foible: Having a minor weakness or eccentricity in someone's character
Every human is not perfect. Everyone has a one particular foible flaw.

deplore: strong diapproval of something
China always deplores whenever India raises terrorism issue against pakistan

congenial: Pleasing or liked on account of having like-minded interests that are similar to one's own
M and I have a many things agreeable and it makes easy to get along and makes best congenial life partner

blithe: Showing causal and cheerful indifference considered to be callous or improper
happy and without worry
She shows blithe disregard for the authority and their rules.

florid: excessively intricate / complex
A florid architecture

A red or flushed complexion
It is easy to find a girl is attracted to you if she is florid evry time you talk to her.

portentous: cautious / sign 
The WFD often broadcasts portentous information on weather.

Spoken in a pompous / bombastic manner
A public speaker might make some very portentous claims about honesty and integrity.

sanctimonious: Pretending to be morally superior
Politicians often portay as sanctimonious but most of them are crooked

halcyon: A pleasant memory of the past
When you vist your college you are in halcyon thoughts and recapitulate happy thoughts

unruly: hard to manage and control
Talibans are unruly so US left the afghanistan 

inexorable: Impossible to avoid or prevent
His determination to achieve his goal is inexorable

Impossible to persuade someone
Cubans are inexorable to open their country for trade.

unstinting: Generous in nature by donating time and money
During pandemic he was known for his unstinting nature to poor 

loath: relectant to accept or unwilling to accept
Most humans loath to accept their mistakes

wanton: Utter disregard to feelings towards anything or vicious
When sarah kissed her friend's husband she wanton dismissed her friend's feelings.

casually unrestrained sexual feeling

veritable: Used to emphasize something how great it is by comparision
My garden had became a veritable jungle by time I came back home.

schism: A division or split caused due to indifferences in opinions or ideologies
USA and USSR once allies now hard-core opponents due to schism

stoic: Having no emotion 
Spock was known for his stoic nature

umbrage: Offence or annoyance
The minister took umbrage on the media that he used his position to influence his family 

untoward: Unexpected / unpleasant / iappropriate
People who displayed untoward actions in recent riots will be punished severely.

untrammeled: not deprived of freedom of action or expression / not restricted or hampered / not to be limited by rules
Self-governing schools are untrammeled by education authority rules

lassitude: lazy and lacking energy
He was fired because of his lassitude nature

spate: Large number of unpleasant events occuring in quick succession
The city was hit by spate of natural calamities within last 6 months

turpitude: Evil
Edward kemper does not look like a turpitude

trappings: Things that are associated with outward sign of appearance
He deserves his financial success and trappings of wealth that come from working hard

